---  
title: "Making a Raspberry Pi network sdr"  
date: 2026-6-25  
layout: post  
categories: [project]  
tags: [sdr, pi, project, radio ]  
---

# Making Pi Powered SDR 

"SDR, or software-defined radio, is like getting to look behind the curtains at a magic show, and that magic show is radio communications" This is a quote from YouTuber Jeff GEErling on his Video "Radio Hacking 101: Raspberry Pi SDR with a CaribouLite"  think he’s definitely right about s be l letting you peek behind the curtain of the world ofI think he's definitely right about SDRs be l letting you peek behind the curtain of the world of  radio communication, but even more than that, you peek behind the curtain of our world, because so much of our world runs on radio. I love using my sdr but it’s kinda bulky to carry around and I get a better signal when I‘m high up in my attic but it’s hot up there so  thought I would hook it up to a Raspberry pi and use that instead of connecting to it directly that way  can access my  anywhere and  could even access it remotely if  were to use Cloudflare.  My first plan was to stream the raw  data IQ across wifi because my house is too old to have Ethernet. I quickly found out though that this is both impractical and also laggy and I couldn't necessarily get a stable connection over Wi-Fi with a high enough sample rate for practical  experiments. After a whole lot of trying, I'm thinking I settled on a different paradigm.  
1\. I would have the PI process the data on board and then send it out over a web server with SpyServer or OpenWebRX     
2.I would have dedicated Programs for when I wanted to track something like ADS-B, AIS, and such.  
3,  would have some sort of dashboard that could connect to a switch between these modes to avoid conflicts with usb.   
I decided I should probably make a list of things I can use with an SDR.

1. Boot up on openWEBRX  (docker)  
2. ADS-B with readsb [[https://github.com/wiedehopf/readsb](https://github.com/wiedehopf/readsb)] and tar1090 [https://github.com/wiedehopf/tar1090]  
3. AIS with AIS-catcher [https://www.aiscatcher.org]  
4. ACARS with ACARSDEC [https://github.com/f00b4r0/acarsdec/]  
5. Signal id with Artemis (flatpak)  
6. ISM bands rtl 433  
7. Satellite  stuff with satdump  
8. Radiosonde With radiosonde\_auto\_rx 
9. Sstv with QSSTV

 I'm not going to go into too much detail about installing all the tools. I'm gonna make a dedicated guide for that. 

A whole lot of testing and trying, I think I finally get it working. Although I found out I can do a lot of this stuff directly in openwebx :-p Still, I learned a lot, about how a sdr can work over the network, about Bath Bay Pies, and also about setting up software. I learned to use Olive Tin and I’m hoping to use it again later. Thank you for reading. If you have any questions, do not hesitate to email me at info@discountdeadcats.xyz 
